>> Spencer Schneidenbach: All right, so
let's talk quite a bit
about declaring variables.
So this is gonna look familiar
if you're a programmer already.
But if you're new to programming this is
a variable is just basically a way of kind
of containing some data
in a specific scope.
In this case a scope is just what's
denoted by these curly braces.
So there's one main way of
declaring variables, but
a few different ways that you can
kind of declare them differently
depending on what it is
you're trying to do.
At a minimum, the declaration for
a variable looks like this, which is,
we're just gonna use int as our example,
which is a representative of
a 32 bit integer, and we're gonna
call it number of times or something.
And you can see that we've
just declared a variable.
It doesn't have a value in it.
Implicitly, an integer
has a value of zero.
So we'll talk about that more when we get
into value types and reference types and
default values.
But this, in and of itself,
is a way to declare a variable.
You can set the variable to a particular
value by going number of times
equals five, so equals is the,
what's called the assignment operator.
So that's how you assign
a value to a variable.
But you don't need two lines to do this.
You can also just do it all in the same
line, which is typically what I do.
I almost always declare my variables and
just put them in the same line,
unless there's some kind of piece of code,
I don't know what this value is
going to be ahead of time, so
I'm just gonna declare because I
know I'm going to need it very soon.
One thing to mention that for
variable declaration, strictly speaking,
you don't need to declare the type so
you can write what's called var.
So var, if you're coming from
a language like JavaScript,
var kind of has a bad reputation.
It is not at all the same.
I mean, it is then that you
declare a variable with it, but
it's very different in that.
It's just basically saying, hey,
just interpret the type for me, right?
And type is interpreted at compile time,
not run time.
So you can see that when we hover over it,
because we know that we've assigned it
to five, the compiler and .NET has already
figured out this is an integer, okay?
And it won't let you do a var declaration
without something assigned to it.
So it says, implicitly typed
variables must be initialized.
>> Student 1: Can the type of var of
implicitly typed variables change?
Yeah, if you start out with
number of times equals five,
can you reassign it as a string?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: No.
So no, the type will not change.
So if you try to type
it as equals five and
then you say number of times equal to some
string value, it won't let you do it.
It will say you can't implicitly
convert a string to int.
You can do that sometimes not
on vastly different types.
If they're in the inheritance hierarchy,
if the type that you're assigning it to
was that type, then yes, you could do it.
For example,
you could declare this as object,
all types inherit from object, which
we'll get into types here more in a bit.
But because everything Including int and
string have a common shared
inheritance of object,
you can assign this number of times
variable to any value you want.
Good question.
>> Student 2: Is C-Sharp strictly typed?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: C-Sharp
strictly typed ,yes, it is, yeah.
There is a dynamic keyword for
dynamic typing.
I don't cover it in this course,
because I don't use it.
I use it.
I don't use it [LAUGH] very, very, very,
very sparingly, but it is strictly typed.
Yes, good question.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Something you
can do and something that I don't do is
you can, if you want, declare multiple
variables in comma separated.
I choose not to do this, mostly because
most of the time I'm assigning to values
anyways, and I like the multiple lines to,
I don't think less lines of code
is necessarily a better thing.
I think in general, that's a good rule but
not necessarily for variables.
I like to just put all my variables
at the top of a statement and
just assign them all separately to kind
of just show exactly what they are.
So you can do this.
In practice, I don't.
I don't really think it adds much
to the clarity of the language.
So let's see.
I'm kind of going off the back of, well,
talking about how I declare variables.
Almost all of the time you could
call it laziness, or force a habit.
I'm always using var.
Var is probably my favorite
way of declaring variables.
I don't think not using var adds.
I know some developers
are strictly speaking,
they really want to declare the type
of the thing ahead of time.
And that's fine if you want to do that.
Me, personally, I'm fine with var.
It also has the benefit of putting
the variable names, kind of starting on
the same fifth, fourth character, fifth
character, which is a small thing, but.
But maybe it enhances readability,
kind of reaching on that one.
But I almost always exclusively use var.
I do for certain instances,
which we'll get into, I will use,
especially in the next course,
I will use type declaration.
Especially, of course it's
required if I can't initialize
that variable at the same time,
I will use a type declaration
to make it super clear what
it is I'm trying to do.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Let's talk
about the const keyword for a second.
Const, again, is similar, but different
than if you're coming from JavaScript,
const is my var when
I'm writing JavaScript,
I use constant let because JavaScript
has problems and C-Sharp it does
not have any of the problems that it has,
but there is a const keyword.
And this is a little bit confusing
because const is really a compiler time,
kind of like static variable, and it
really is only good for using value types.
You cannot set a rough if it's typed to
a const, you would use a static instead,
which we'll get into.
But this is what it looks like.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So
this is something that you can declare in
a specific scope.
So in this case, I've declared
it in the mains method scope.
You don't have to put it there.
You can also put it at class scope for
something Thing that would
be used among multiple different things
that might access this variable.
So const is different in JavaScript,
in that, like I said,
you don't assign anything but
integers and strings or floats, Boolean.
Those are the kinds of things
that you would assign to a const.
It wouldn't be used in
most of your programming.
Most of the time you're gonna be using var
or declaring the variable with the with
the type, like that,
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Variables
fall out of scope.
So that's a really important thing to say.
So let's show a quick
example of an if statement.
So if this value is true then we wanna
execute this particular piece of code.
So I'm gonna move my number of times
variable declaration there to show that if
I try to access it outside of scope.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: I can't do it,
because variables are invariably scoped
inside of the curly braces
in which they live.
There's also, when we talk about
visibility more, we'll talk about
variables at the class level declared with
different types of visibility in order for
this to be accessible outside of
program for instance this would need
to be public but we'll get into that more
as we talk about accessibility modifiers.
>> Student 1: Is var
inherently a broader scope or
I forget what it's called,
in the way that it is in JavaScript?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: No,
that is a great question.
So believe what you're kind of asking
about is the thing called hoisting or
right where the the var statement
in JavaScript gets moved.
Essentially, if you declare this as a var,
you'd be able to access this in
JavaScript outside of its scope.
C-Sharp has none of that.
All variables fall out of
scope when you go out a block.
And it could be a block like this,
it could be a block inside of a method,
it could be a block inside of a class,
but it doesn't have the same kind of
assignments, semantics and
memory implications that JavaScript does.
Really great question.
That's a really great question, a really
important point because, like I said,
var is totally different.
It's obviously very similar because
you're declaring variables with it, but
it's totally different in practice.
Great question.
>> Student 1: Is then an analogous way
of hoisting it to use the public word?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Yeah, kind of.
Yeah, so if you wanted to
expose it to a broader scope.
This would be kind of the way to do that,
but
it wouldn't put it in if you had
a separate class declaration,
you couldn't just implicitly access
this max score unless you used its,
what we call the fully qualified name.
So you'd be able to void TestMethod.
You can't just go up here and because
this is declared as const in a high level
scope, you can't just say MaxScore and
expect to be able to access it.
It doesn't have any of that, but you can
access it because it's declared as public.
You could go public, sorry,
Program.MaxScore and
access the variable that way.
So it doesn't have nearly the same poor
implications as it does in JavaScript.
Last thing we'll talk about is
value types versus reference types,
which we will talk about more as
we get into the type conversation.
But C-Sharp variables can Invariably
be categorized into one of two types,
which is that there are value types,
things like int and bool,
that are built into the language and
have default values, for instance,
that are essentially a value, like an int
is always its default value is zero.
Bools is false.
Floats is zero, when you initialize them,
they are initialized in memory.
>> Student 2: Are there class
wrappers of int float, etc?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: That's
a great question.
The answer is kind of, and we'll talk
about that when we get into talking about
value types and
reference types a little further in, but
essentially you can declare a value
type as a reference type, and
you would do that by calling this object.
This converts this five
into a reference type.
And I'll go through
the implications of that.
It's not something I do
super on a very common.
It's not common at all, but
it is something that is important to
know as you get into the language.
Good question.
So I do want to touch on
variables when you declare them,
they're either going to be, like I said,
a value type or a reference type.
So this is a value type
because it's declared,
even if you declare it as an int or
a var, it doesn't matter.
It's exactly the same thing to C-Sharp.
This is what's called a value type.
Reference types, value types, as they're
passed to things are passed by copy, so
they're copied over,
as opposed to referred to directly.
Reference types for things like object,
let me just put this here,
delete that object referenceType.
Reference types
are typically complex types.
Things that are declared as class
are going to be reference type.
String is a reference type that's
kind of treated like a value type.
Again, we'll get to that in a little bit.
We'll talk a little bit more about
the implications of this as we get further
into the course.
But it's important to know for now that
there are value types and reference
types when you do declare variables,
and there are implications to both.